Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Brown: A MASSIVE EXPLOSION AT
A FERTILIZER PLANT DEVASTATES A
SMALL TEXAS TOWN, LEAVING ENTIRE
BLOCKS NEAR THE BLAST IN RUINS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
GET THE LATEST FROM WEST, TEXAS
WHERE THE DEATH TOLL IS
UNCERTAIN, SCORES ARE INJURED
AND THE FRANTIC SEARCH FOR
SURVIVORS CONTINUES.
>> I WALKED THROUGH THE BLAST
AREA, I SEARCHED SOME HOUSES
EARLIER TONIGHT-- MASSIVE, JUST
LIKE IRAQ, JUST LIKE THE MURRAH
BUILDING IN OKLAHOMA CITY.
>> Brown: THEN, THE F.B.I.
RELEASED PHOTOS OF TWO SUSPECTS
IN THE BOSTON BOMBINGS.
WE UPDATE THVE
AS THE PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY
ATTEND A PRAYER SERVICE IN THE
CITY TO MOURN THE VICTIMS AND
OFFER WORDS OF HOPE.
>> EVEN WHEN OUR HEART ACHES, WE
SUMMON THE STRENGTH THAT MAYBE
WE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WE HAD.
AND WE CARRY ON; WE FINISH THE
RACE.
>> Suarez: HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON THE INCREASED USE OF
DRONES HERE AT HOME, AMID
GROWING CONCERNS ABOUT PRIVACY
AND THEIR USE DOWN THE ROAD.
>> Brown: A NEW PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP FOR THE COUNTRY'S 11
MILLION UN-DOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS
WAS UNVEILED TODAY BY A BI-
PARTISAN GROUP OF SENATORS.
MARGARET WARNER TALKS TO ONE OF
THEM, DICK DURBIN OF ILLINOIS.
>> Suarez: AND WE SIT DOWN WITH
THE HEAD OF THE WORLD BANK, JIM
YONG KIM, ABOUT HIS NEW PUSH TO
TACKLE EXTREME POVERTY AROUND
E GLTHOBE.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
¶  ¶
MOVING OUR ECONOMY FOR 160
YEARS.
BNSF, THE ENGINE THAT CONNECTS
US.
>> AND BY THE ALFRED P. SLOAN
FOUNDATION.
SUPPORTING SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY,
AND IMPROVED ECONOMIC
PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL
LITERACY IN THE 21ST CENTURY.
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING SUPPORT
OF THESE INSTITUTIONS AND
FOUNDATIONS.
AND...
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: RESCUERS WORKED IN
WET WEATHER TODAY TO FIND
SURVIVORS AMID THE RUBBLE FROM
THE FIERY EXPLOSION AT A TEXAS
FERTILIZER PLANT LAST NIGHT.
LATE TODAY, AUTHORITIES
ACKNOWLEDGED THERE WERE
FATALITIES BUT DECLINED TO
CONFIRM HOW MANY.
EARLIER ESTIMATES RANGED FROM
FIVE TO 15 THOUGH THERE WERE
REPORTS THE TOLL WOULD GO MUCH
HIGHER.
THE CAUSE OF THE FIRE AND
EXPLOSION IS STILL NOT KNOWN;
OFFICIALS SAID TODAY THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE OF FOUL PLAY.
A MAN USING HIS CELL PHONE
CAPTURED THE MOMENT LAST NIGHT
WHEN THE WEST FERTILIZER COMPANY
PLANT EXPLODED.
THAT FLATTENED BUILDINGS WITHIN
A FIVE BLOCKS RADIUS AND SENT
SHOCKWAVES OUT FOR MILES AROUND.
>> I WAS ACTUALLY PICKED UP AND
THROWN ABOUT TEN FEET.
I WAS STANDING BY THE END OF MY
BED AND THEN WHERE I LANDED WAS
BY THE BATHROOM, ABOUT TEN FEET
CLOSER INTO THE HOUSE.
>> I TURNED AROUND AND WATCHED
THE EXPLOSION AS IT HAPPENED,
AND IT THREW ME DOWN INTO THE
BED OF THE TRUCK.
NEXT THING I KNOW, SHRAPNEL WAS
FALLING DOWN EVERYWHERE, BURNING
ALL OF US, AND WE JUST GOT OUT
AND RAN.
>> Suarez: THE THUNDEROUS BLAST
OCCURRED IN THE TOWN OF WEST,
TEXAS, A SMALL FARMING COMMUNITY
OF 2,800 PEOPLE THAT LIES ABOUT
20 MILES NORTH OF WACO.
TODAY RESCUE WORKERS CONTINUED
TO SEARCH THE SMOLDERING RUBBLE
FOR SURVIVORS.
WACO POLICE SERGEANT WILLIAM
SWANTON.
>> THE NUMBER ONE PRIORITY IS TO
RESCUE AND SAVE LIVES IN THE
EVENT WE CAN DO THAT.
THE NUMBER TWO PRIORITY IS TO
MAKE SURE THERE ARE NO FURTHER
INJURIES AND NOBODY ELSE GETS
HURT.
>> Suarez: SWANTON ADDED THAT
COLD, RAINY WEATHER HAD HELPED
EXTINGUISH FIRES AND KEEP
CONCERNS OVER CHEMICALS IN THE
AIR AT BAY.
>> THERE IS NO LINGERING THREAT.
I THINK AGAIN, THE WEATHER HAS
KIND OF HELPED US WITH THAT.
IT HAS OBVIOUSLY DISPERSED SOME
OF THE SMOKE.
AT THIS POINT, I HAVE BEEN TOLD
THAT IS NOT A CONCERN.
>> Suarez: THE EXPLOSION
DESTROYED AT LEAST 75 HOUSES, A
50-UNIT APARTMENT COMPLEX, A
MIDDLE SCHOOL AND A NURSING HOME
FROM WHICH 133 PATIENTS WERE
EVACUATED.
FIRST RESPONDERS AND LOCAL
RESIDENTS DESCRIBED A TERRIFYING
SCENE.
>> AS SOON AS I RAN UP THERE WAS
A WOMAN HOLDING TWO BABIES, AND
THEY WERE SOAKED IN BLOOD, AND
ONE OF THEM, ONE OF THE BABIES
LOOKED LIKE IT WASN'T
RESPONDING.
IT'S JUST HORRIBLE TO SEE
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> Suarez: FOR TEXAS TROOPER
D.L. WILSON, THE AFTERMATH WAS
REMINISCENOF AT NOTHER
FERTILIZER EXPLOSION-- THE 1995
BOMBING OF THE MURRAH FEDERAL
BUILDING IN OKLAHOMA CITY, 18
YEARS AGO TOMORROW.
>> I CAN TELL YOU I WAS THERE, I
WALKED THROUGH THE BLAST AREA, I
SEARCHED SOME HOUSES EARLIER
TONIGHT-- MASSIVE, JUST LIKE
IRAQ, JUST LIKE THE MURRAH
BUILDING IN OKLAHOMA CITY.
SAME KIND OF ANHYDROUS EXPLODED
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT KIND OF
DAMAGE WE'RE LOOKING AT THERE.
>> Suarez: WHAT CAUSED THE PLANT
TO CATCH FIRE AND EXPLODE IS
STILL UNCLEAR.
OFFICIALS ARE TREATING THE AREA
AS A CRIME SCENE AND SAY THEY'LL
AWAIT REPORTS FROM THE BUREAU OF
ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, FIREARMS AND
EXPLOSIVES.
>> THERE IS NO INDICATION OF
CRIME AT THIS POINT FROM WHAT
I'M MADE AWARE OF.
THAT IS WHAT WE WILL
INVESTIGATE.
THE A.T.F. WILL INVESTIGATE, THE
STATE FIRE MARSHALL WILL
INVESTIGATE TO DETERMINE IF IN
FACT THERE WAS SOME TYPE OF
CRIME THERE.
>> Suarez: WHAT IS KNOWN IS THAT
AT AROUND 7:30 YESTERDAY EVENING
THE WEST FERTILIZER COMPANY
PLANT CAUGHT FIRE.
LOCAL FIREFIGHTERS-- MANY OF
THEM VOLUNTEERS-- RESPONDED AND
IMMEDIATELY BEGAN EVACUATING THE
AREA.
ABOUT 25 MINUTES LATER, THE
SPECTACULAR BLAST OCCURRED,
KNOCKING OUT WINDOWS MILES AWAY.
FIRST RESPONDERS QUICKLY SET UP
A TRIAGE STATION AT A FOOTBALL
FIELD TO TREAT THE INJURED WHILE
OTHERS SEARCHED FOR SURVIVORS.
BEDS WERE SET UP AT NEARBY HIGH
SCHOOL FOR THOSE WHO COULDN'T
RETURN HOME.
>> LAST NIGHT WAS TRULY A
NIGHTMARE SCENARIO FOR THAT
COMMUNITY.
>> Suarez: TODAY TEXAS GOVERNOR
RICK PERRY ASKED TEXANS AND ALL
AMERICANS TO KEEP THE PEOPLE OF
WEST IN THEIR THOUGHTS AND
PRAYERS.
>> IN A SMALL TOWN LIKE WEST,
THEY KNOW THAT THIS TRAGEDY HAS
MOST LIKELY HIT EVERY FAMILY,
IT'S TOUCHED PRACTICALLY
EVERYONE IN THAT TOWN.
>> Suarez: PERRY IS ASKING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO DECLARE A
STATE OF EMERGENCY FOR McLENNAN
COUNTY, IN WHICH WEST LIES.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE TRAGEDY IN
TEXAS, WE ARE JOINED FROM WEST
BY B.J. AUSTIN OF KERA PUBLIC
RADIO.
B.J., IS THE FIRE OUT?
IS THE SCENE UNDER CONTROL?
ARE EMERGENCY SERVICE PERSONNEL
ABLE TO ANSWER THE AREA WHERE
THE BLAST OCCURRED?
>> WE REALLY DON'T KNOW IF THE
FIRE IS COMPLETELY OUT.
THAT WAS BRIEFING ABOUT AN HOUR
AGO AND THAT QUESTION WAS ASKED
AND THE OFFICIAL -- THE SHERIFF,
DEPUTY -- CHIEF DEPUTY SHERIFF
OF McCHREN UNANIMOUS COUNTY SAID
HE DID NOT HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF
THAT NOR DID A STATE TROOPER
JASON REYES WHO WAS ALSO
CONDUCTING THE BRIEFING.
SO WE'RE NOT EXACTLY SURE.
I DID HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH A
STATE REPRESENTATIVE WHO THIS
MORNING WAS ABLE TO TOUR THE
SITE AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND HE
SAID THAT IT'S GONE.
IT'S -- THE PLANT IS NO MORE.
>> Suarez: HAS ANYONE BEEN
RECOVERED IN AN AREA CLOSE TO
THE BLASTS IN THE LAST SEVERAL
HOURS?
>> OFFICIALS ARE BEING VERY,
VERY CAREFUL WITH THIS WHOLE
THING OF RECOVERY, OF DISCOVERY
AND WHATEVER AND THEY'RE BACKING
OFF OF ANY EARLIER NUMBERS OF
POSSIBLE FATALITIES THAT THEY
WERE GIVEN.
THEY SAID THEY'RE DOING THIS IN
RESPECT OF THE VOLUNTEER
FIREFIGHTERS AND THE CITIZENS OF
WEST.
THEY WANT TO BE EXTREMELY
DILIGENT AND EXTREMELY CAREFUL
BEFORE THEY SAY ANYTHING ABOUT
THE EXACT NUMBER OF FATALITIES
AND THE EXACT NUMBER OF INJURED.
WE'VE HEARD ANYWHERE ON INJURED
FROM 170 AND THE STATE
REPRESENTATIVE TOLD ME HE
THOUGHT IT WAS CLOSER TO 200.
>> WELL, AS EVERYONE WORKING ON
THE PRESUMPTION THAT THERE ARE
GOING TO BE A LOT MORE THAN THE
FIVE TO 15 THAT WAS EARLIER
ANNOUNCED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
>> IT MAY SEEM THAT WAY BUT WE
JUST DON'T KNOW.
THEY'RE NOT TIPPING THEIR HANDS
WITH THIS AT ALL.
THE STATE REPRESENTATIVE DID
TELL ME WHEN HE TOURED THE SITE
HE WAS AMAZED AT THE LEVEL OF
DAMAGE DONE TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
HOMES.
HE SAID THEY WEREN'T BLOWN OVER
LIKE A TORNADO, THEY WERE BLOWN
UP WITH THE WALLS BLOWING
OUTWARD.
HE SAID IT LOOKED LIKE A WAR
ZONE.
>> Suarez: YOU HAD AN ENORMOUS
FIRE THEN CATASTROPHIC
EXPLOSION.
IS THERE A CHEMICAL SMELL IN THE
AREA?
WHEN YOU'RE DOWNWIND FROM WEST
DOES IT SMELL LIKE YOU'RE NEAR A
CHEMICAL PLANT THAT HAS SOME
SERIOUS TROUBLE?
>> I HAVE TO TELL YOU, WHERE I
AM RIGHT NOW THE ONLY SMELL YOU
SMELL IS COWS.
WE'RE RIGHT NEXT TO A CATTLE
YARD.
I REALLY DON'T KNOW.
THE AREA IS SO BLOCKED OFF, NOT
EVEN PEOPLE WHO LIVE THERE
WITHIN A TWO-MILE RADIUS CAN GET
THERE TO CHECK THE DAMAGE OF
THEIR HOMES OR GET THEIR
PRESCRIPTION MEDICINE OR
CLOTHING OR ANYTHING.
EVERYONE IS BEING TOTALLY KEPT
OUT OF THE AREA AT THE DIRECTION
OF THE A.T.F., THE ALCOHOL,
TOBACCO, FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES
FOLKS.
>> Suarez: IN THE CORE AREA, IS
THERE MATERIAL ON SITE THAT
POSES A DANGER EITHER FROM FUMES
OR FROM BURNING?
>> WE ASKED THAT QUESTION AT THE
BRIEFING ABOUT AN HOUR AGO AND
GOT AN EVASIVE ANSWER THAT ALL
STATE AGENCIES INCLUDING THE
TEXAS COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENT
QUALITY ARE ON SITE, THEY ARE
MONITORING AND THEY ARE ENSURING
THAT THE PUBLIC IS SAFE AND
THAT'S ALL THEY WOULD SAY.
>> IS THIS A PLANT THAT'S HAD
SAFETY PROBLEMS OR REGULATORY
PROBLEMS IN THE PAST?
>> WE DO KNOW FROM COMMENTS MADE
BY THE SUSPECT OF EDUCATION THAT
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO IN
FEBRUARY POSSIBLY THE PLANT DID
A CONTROLLED BURN OF SOME LUMBER
AND TREES THAT WERE ON SITE AND
THEY DID A CONTROLLED BURN AND
THEY ASKED THAT THE INTERMEDIATE
YA SCHOOL NEARBY BE EVACUATED
WHILE THEY DO THAT CONTROLLED
BURN BUT OTHER THAN THAT THAT'S
THE ONLY THING OR CONCERN ISSUED
ONE GENTLEMAN CANNOT RETURN TO
HIS HOME, THE BLAST BURNED HIS
WINDOWS AND DOORS OFF, HE TELLS
ME HE'S HAD CONCERNS ABOUT
POSSIBLE CHEMICAL CONTAMINATION
BUT HE NEVER THOUGHT THERE'D BE
AN EXPLOSION AND HE SAID HE
NEVER REALLY PURSUED THOSE
CONCERNS BUT HE DID HAVE THEM.
>> Suarez: AMMONIUM NITRATE IS A
COMMONLY USED FERTILIZER.
IS THIS AN AGRICULTURAL AREA OF
TEXAS?
IS WEST A LOGICAL PLACE TO HAVE
A PLANT OF THIS KIND?
>> YES, INDEED, IT IS.
AND THE PLANT HAS SERVICES ALL
OF THE FARMERS AND RANCHERS IN
THIS CENTRAL TEXAS AREA AROUND
WEST AND ONE PERSON TOLD ME THAT
IT'S BEEN THERE A LONG TIME AND
THAT A LOT OF THINGS HAVE JUST
GROWN UP AROUND IT.
A LOT OF HOUSES, APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND THE SCHOOL HAVE
JUST GROWN UP AROUND THE PLANT.
>> Suarez: B.J. AUSTIN OF KERA
IN DALLAS, THANKS A LOT FOR
JOINING US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": THE F.B.I. RELEASES
IMAGES OF TWO SUSPECTS IN THE
BOSTON BOMBING INVESTIGATION;
EXCITEMENT AND CONCERN OVER
DOMESTIC DRONES; THE SENATE'S
BI-PARTISAN PUSH ON IMMIGRATION
AND THE HEAD OF THE WORLD BANK'S
FOCUS ON POVERTY AROUND THE
GLOBE.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A MISSISSIPPI
MAN WAS CHARGED TODAY WITH
THREATENING PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
A U.S. SENATOR BY ALLEGEDLY
SENDING THEM TAINTED LETTERS.
PAUL KEVIN CURTIS WAS ARRESTED
YESTERDAY, BUT MAINTAINS HE IS
INNOCENT.
LAB TESTS CONFIRMED A LETTER
SENT TO MISSISSIPPI REPUBLICAN
SENATOR ROGER WICKER CONTAINED
RICIN.
AND THE F.B.I. CONFIRMED THE
DEADLY POISON WAS ALSO IN A
LETTER MAILED TO THE WHITE
HOUSE.
BOTH WERE INTERCEPTED AT OFF-
SITE MAILING FACILITIES.
IF CONVICTED, CURTIS COULD FACE
UP TO 15 YEARS IN PRISON.
FLOODING BECAME A PROBLEM FOR
PEOPLE IN THE UPPER MIDWEST
TODAY, AS RIVERS OVERFLOWED
THEIR BANKS.
AT LEAST NINE STATES ARE
EXPERIENCING FLOODING OR WILL
SOON.
AND THE U.S. ARMY CORPS OF
ENGINEERS ANNOUNCED
IT'S CLOSING PART OF THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER TO COMMERCIAL
NAVIGATION STARTING TOMORROW.
HEAVY RAIN FELL ACROSS THE
REGION, MAKING THE FLOODING
WORSE.
AND IN CHICAGO, A SINKHOLE
OPENED UP ON A STREET ON THE
CITY'S SOUTH SIDE AND SWALLOWED
THREE CARS.
A FORMER JUSTICE OF THE PEACE
HAS BEEN CHARGED IN THE KILLINGS
OF A NORTH TEXAS DISTRICT
ATTORNEY, HIS WIFE, AND AN
ASSISTANT PROSECUTOR.
ERIC WILLIAMS HAS BEEN IN JAIL
SINCE SATURDAY FOR MAKING TERROR
THREATS RELATED TO THE CASE.
THE MURDERED OFFICIALS
PROSECUTED WILLIAMS FOR COMPUTER
THEFT LAST YEAR.
HE WAS LATER CONVICTED AND LOST
HIS ELECTED POSITION.
HIS WIFE, KIM WILLIAMS, WAS
CHARGED IN THE MURDERS
YESTERDAY.
SHE CONFESSED TO TAKING PART BUT
INSISTED HER HUSBAND WAS THE
GUNMAN.
EXPERTS GATHERED BY THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION ARRIVED IN
CHINA TODAY, AHEAD OF A WEEKLONG
INVESTIGATION INTO A NEW STRAIN
OF BIRD FLU THERE.
SO FAR, THEY ARE UNSURE HOW IT
IS SPREADING TO HUMANS.
THE H7N9 VIRUS WAS IDENTIFIED
THREE WEEKS AGO.
SINCE THEN, IT HAS KILLED 17
PEOPLE AND INFECTED 70 OTHERS,
INCLUDING MANY WHO NEVER EVEN
HAD CONTACT WITH BIRDS.
IN THIS COUNTRY, THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
SAID IT WAS WORKING CLOSELY WITH
CHINA TO FIGURE OUT THE STRAIN.
>> THE VIRUS IS STILL ONLY FOUND
IN SIX PROVINCES OR
MUNICIPALITIES IN CHINA SO
THERE'S NO CASES OUTSIDE CHINA.
WE THINK WE MIGHT SEE A TRAVELER
COME TO THE FROM CHINA AND GET
SICK IN THE UNITED STATES.
'RE WEPREPARING FOR THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE TEAM OF
INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS PLAN TO
VISIT THE MOST AFFECTED AREAS OF
THE COUNTRY -- SHANGHAI AND
BEIJING -- AS WELL AS CHINESE
LABORATORIES TESTING THE VIRUS.
THE PORTUGUESE GOVERNMENT PUSHED
AHEAD WITH NEW SPENDING CUTS
TODAY TO THE TUNE OF
$1 BILLION THIS YEAR.
THE NEW MONEY-SAVING MEASURES
ARE DEEPLY UNPOPULAR, BUT
NECESSARY IN ORDER TO MEET
DEFICIT TARGETS PORTUGAL'S
CREDITORS SET OUT TWO YEARS AGO.
THE CUTS WILL REDUCE SPENDING ON
PUBLIC SECTOR STAFF, GOODS AND
SERVICES THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN
SLASHED IN PREVIOUS ROUNDS OF
CUTS.
PORTUGAL'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS
ALREADY ABOVE 17%.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, A SLEW OF
DISAPPOINTING CORPORATE EARNINGS
REPORTS SENT STOCKS SLIPPING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 81 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
14,537.
THE NASDAQ FELL
38 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,166.
NASA SCIENTISTS ANNOUNCED THE
DISCOVERY OF TWO NEW PLANETS
THAT APPEAR TO BE CAPABLE OF
SUPPORTING LIFE.
THE DISTANT PLANETS ARE 1,200
LIGHT YEARS AWAY, ORBITING A
STAR IN THE CONSTELLATION LYRA.
ONE LIGHT YEAR IS ALMOST SIX
TRILLION MILES.
THE DISCOVERIES MARK A MILESTONE
IN THE SEARCH FOR LIFE ON OTHER
PLANETS.
THE FIND WAS MADE POSSIBLE BY
NASA'S KEPLER TELESCOPE.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
AND TO THE LATEST ON THE BOSTON
BOMBING.
A SHORT TIME AGO, THE FBI HELD A
NEWS CONFERENCE.
GATHERED AND ANALYZED THOUSANDS
OF TIPS...
AND COME UP WITH IMAGES OF TWO
PERSONS OF INTEREST...
SUSPECTS WHO MAY HAVE PLANTED
DEVICES NEAR THE FINISH LINE OF
THE MARATHON.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
>> TODAY WE ARE ENLISTING THE
PUBLIC'S HELP TO IDENTIFY THE
TWO SUSPECTS.
AFTER A VERY DETAILED ANALYSIS
OF PHOTO, VIDEO, AND SORE
EVIDENCE WE ARE RELEASING PHOTOS
OF THESE TWO SUSPECTS.
THEY ARE IDENTIFIED AS SUSPECT
ONE AND SUSPECT TWO.
THEY APPEAR TO BE ASSOCIATED.
SUSPECT ONE IS WEARING A DARK
HAT.
SUSPECT TWO IS WEARING A WHITE
SUSPECT TWO SET DOWN A BACKPACK
HAT.
AT THE SITE OF THE SECOND
SUSPECT TWO SET DOWN A BACKPACK
EXPLOSION JUST IN FRONT OF THE
AT THE SITE OF THE SECOND
FORUM RESTAURANT.
EXPLOSION JUST IN FRONT OF THE
WE STRONGLY ENCOURAGE THOSE WHO
FORUM RESTAURANT.
WERE AT THE FORUM RESTAURANT WHO
WE STRONGLY ENCOURAGE THOSE WHO
HAVE NOT CONTACTED US YET TO DO
WERE AT THE FORUM RESTAURANT WHO
SO.
HAVE NOT CONTACTED US YET TO DO
AS YOU CAN SEE FROM ONE OF THE
SO.
IMAGES SUSPECTS ONE AND TWO
AS YOU CAN SEE FROM ONE OF THE
APPEAR TO BE WALKING TOGETHER
IMAGES SUSPECTS ONE AND TWO
THROUGH THE MARATHON CROWD ON
APPEAR TO BE WALKING TOGETHER
BOYLSTON STREET AND THE
THROUGH THE MARATHON CROWD ON
DIRECTION OF THE FINISH LINE.
BOYLSTON STREET AND THE
THAT IMAGE WAS CAPTURED AS THEY
DIRECTION OF THE FINISH LINE.
WALKED ON BOYLSTON IN THE
THAT IMAGE WAS CAPTURED AS THEY
VICINITY OF THE INTERSECTION
WALKED ON BOYLSTON IN THE
WITH GLOUCESTER STREET.
VICINITY OF THE INTERSECTION
AS YOU CAN SEE, THE QUALITY OF
WITH GLOUCESTER STREET.
THE PHOTOS IS QUITE GOOD BUT WE
AS YOU CAN SEE, THE QUALITY OF
WILL CONTINUE TO WORK ON
THE PHOTOS IS QUITE GOOD BUT WE
ADDITIONAL IMAGES TO IMPROVE
WILL CONTINUE TO WORK ON
THEIR IDENTIFICATION VALUE.
ADDITIONAL IMAGES TO IMPROVE
FURTHER.
THEIR IDENTIFICATION VALUE.
ON fbi.gov WE HAVE PHOTOS OF THE
FURTHER.
SUSPECTS.
ON fbi.gov WE HAVE PHOTOS OF THE
THE PHOTOS AND VIDEOS ARE POSTED
SUSPECTS.
FOR THE PUBLIC AND MEDIA TO USE,
THE PHOTOS AND VIDEOS ARE POSTED
REVIEW, AND PUBLICIZE.
FOR THE PUBLIC AND MEDIA TO USE,
FOCLARR ITY, THESE IMAGES SHOULD
REVIEW, AND PUBLICIZE.
BE THE ONLY ONES-- I EMPHASIZE,
FOCLARR ITY, THESE IMAGES SHOULD
THE ONLY ONES-- THAT THE PUBLIC
BE THE ONLY ONES-- I EMPHASIZE,
SHOULD VIEW TO ASSIST US.
THE ONLY ONES-- THAT THE PUBLIC
OTHER PHOTOS SHOULD NOT BE
SHOULD VIEW TO ASSIST US.
DEEMED CREDIBLE AND THEY
OTHER PHOTOS SHOULD NOT BE
UNNECESSARILY DIVERT THE
DEEMED CREDIBLE AND THEY
PUBLIC'S ATTENTION IN THE WRONG
UNNECESSARILY DIVERT THE
DIRECTION AND CREATE UNDO WORK
PUBLIC'S ATTENTION IN THE WRONG
FOR VITAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
DIRECTION AND CREATE UNDO WORK
RESOURCES.
FOR VITAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
FOR MORE THAN 100 YEARS THE
RESOURCES.
F.B.I. HAS RELIED UPON THE
FOR MORE THAN 100 YEARS THE
PUBLIC TO BE ITS EYES AND EARS.
F.B.I. HAS RELIED UPON THE
WITH THE MEDIA'S HELP IN AN
PUBLIC TO BE ITS EYES AND EARS.
INSTANT THESE IMAGES WILL BE
WITH THE MEDIA'S HELP IN AN
DELIVERED DIRECTLY INTO THE
INSTANT THESE IMAGES WILL BE
HANDS OF MILLIONS AROUND THE
DELIVERED DIRECTLY INTO THE
WORLD.
HANDS OF MILLIONS AROUND THE
WE KNOW THE PUBLIC WILL PLAY A
WORLD.
CRITICAL ROLE IN IDENTIFYING AND
WE KNOW THE PUBLIC WILL PLAY A
LOCATING THESE INDIVIDUALS.
CRITICAL ROLE IN IDENTIFYING AND
SOMEBODY OUT THERE KNOWS THESE
LOCATING THESE INDIVIDUALS.
INDIVIDUALS AS FRIENDS,
SOMEBODY OUT THERE KNOWS THESE
NEIGHBORS, CO-WORKERS, OR FAMILY
INDIVIDUALS AS FRIENDS,
MEMBERS OF THE SUSPECTS.
NEIGHBORS, CO-WORKERS, OR FAMILY
THOUGH IT MAY BE DIFFICULT, THE
MEMBERS OF THE SUSPECTS.
NATION IS COUNTING ON THOSE WITH
THOUGH IT MAY BE DIFFICULT, THE
INFORMATION TO COME FORWARD AND
NATION IS COUNTING ON THOSE WITH
PROVIDE IT TO US.
INFORMATION TO COME FORWARD AND
NO BIT OF INFORMATION, NO MATTER
PROVIDE IT TO US.
HOW SMALL OR SEEMINGLY
NO BIT OF INFORMATION, NO MATTER
INCONSEQUENTIAL IS TOO SMALL FOR
HOW SMALL OR SEEMINGLY
US TO SEE.
INCONSEQUENTIAL IS TOO SMALL FOR
EACH PIECE MOVES US FORWARD
US TO SEE.
TOWARDS JUSTICE.
EACH PIECE MOVES US FORWARD
IT'S EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO
TOWARDS JUSTICE.
CONTACT WITH US ANY INFORMATION
IT'S EXTREMELY IMPORTANT TO
REGARDING THE IDENTITIES OF
CONTACT WITH US ANY INFORMATION
SUSPECT ONE, SUSPECT TWO, AND
REGARDING THE IDENTITIES OF
THEIR LOCATION.
SUSPECT ONE, SUSPECT TWO, AND
WE CONSIDER THEM TO BE ARMED AND
THEIR LOCATION.
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
WE CONSIDER THEM TO BE ARMED AND
NO ONE SHOULD APPROACH THEM.
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
NO ONE SHOULD ATTEMPT TO
NO ONE SHOULD APPROACH THEM.
APPREHEND THEM EXCEPT LAW
NO ONE SHOULD ATTEMPT TO
ENFORCEMENT.
APPREHEND THEM EXCEPT LAW
LET ME REITERATE THAT CAUTION.
ENFORCEMENT.
DO NOT TAKE ANY ACTION ON YOUR
LET ME REITERATE THAT CAUTION.
OWN.
DO NOT TAKE ANY ACTION ON YOUR
IF YOU SEE THESE MEN, CONTACT
OWN.
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
IF YOU SEE THESE MEN, CONTACT
IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THE
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
BOMBINGS OR THE MEN PICTURE HERE
IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THE
PLEASE CALL THE TELEPHONE LISTED
BOMBINGS OR THE MEN PICTURE HERE
ON THE PHOTO ARRAYS, THAT'S
PLEASE CALL THE TELEPHONE LISTED
1-800-225-5324.
ON THE PHOTO ARRAYS, THAT'S
ALL CALLS WILL BE KEPT
1-800-225-5324.
CONFIDENTIAL.
ALL CALLS WILL BE KEPT
WE HAVE ALSO ESTABLISHED A WEB
CONFIDENTIAL.
SITE FOR TIPS THAT DIRECTLY
WE HAVE ALSO ESTABLISHED A WEB
RELATES TO THE BOMBING.
SITE FOR TIPS THAT DIRECTLY
PLEASE CONTACT US AT
RELATES TO THE BOMBING.
Www.boston john mir thantip
PLEASE CONTACT US AT
THE PHOTOS CAN BE VIEWED ON OUR
Www.boston john mir thantip
WEB SITE fbi.gov.
THE PHOTOS CAN BE VIEWED ON OUR
FOR IT IS IMPORTANT TO EMPHASIZE
WEB SITE fbi.gov.
THE IMAGES FROM MONGD ARE
FOR IT IS IMPORTANT TO EMPHASIZE
INDELIBLE AND THE HORROR OF THAT
THE IMAGES FROM MONGD ARE
DAY WILL REMAIN WITH US FOREVER.
INDELIBLE AND THE HORROR OF THAT
>> Brown: WE'RE JOINED FROM
DAY WILL REMAIN WITH US FOREVER.
BOSTON BY DAVID BOERI OF WBUR
>> Brown: WE'RE JOINED FROM
PUBLIC RADIO.
BOSTON BY DAVID BOERI OF WBUR
DAVID, THAT WAS AN EXTRAORDINARY
PUBLIC RADIO.
NEWS CONFERENCE.
DAVID, THAT WAS AN EXTRAORDINARY
NO DESCRIPTION OF THE SUSPECTS
NEWS CONFERENCE.
OTHER THAN THE COLOR OF THE HATS
NO DESCRIPTION OF THE SUSPECTS
THEY WERE WEARING.
OTHER THAN THE COLOR OF THE HATS
THEY JUST DECIDED TO PUT IT OUT
THEY WERE WEARING.
THERE FOR THE PUBLIC.
THEY JUST DECIDED TO PUT IT OUT
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE FOR THE PUBLIC.
AND THIS IS AN EAMPXLE, JEFF, IF
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
EVER THERE WAS ONE OF NARROW
AND THIS IS AN EAMPXLE, JEFF, IF
CASTING.
EVER THERE WAS ONE OF NARROW
THEY DIDN'T MAKE THE DESCRIPTION
CASTING.
THEY PUT IT OUT THERE, THEY TELL
THEY DIDN'T MAKE THE DESCRIPTION
PEOPLE THEY DON'T WANT TO KNOW
THEY PUT IT OUT THERE, THEY TELL
ABOUT ANYBODY ELSE, ANY OTHER
PEOPLE THEY DON'T WANT TO KNOW
PHOTOGRAPHS OR VIDEO EXCEPT THAT
ABOUT ANYBODY ELSE, ANY OTHER
THAT PERTAINS TO THESE TWO.
PHOTOGRAPHS OR VIDEO EXCEPT THAT
IT IS AN EXTRAORDINARY TECHNIQUE
THAT PERTAINS TO THESE TWO.
YET THEY WANT TO KNOW MORE.
IT IS AN EXTRAORDINARY TECHNIQUE
THEY WANT TO KNOW AS MUCH AS
YET THEY WANT TO KNOW MORE.
THEY CAN FIND OUT ABOUT THESE
THEY WANT TO KNOW AS MUCH AS
TWO PEOPLE.
THEY CAN FIND OUT ABOUT THESE
TELLGLY,IN THAT VIDEO SHOWING
TWO PEOPLE.
THE TWO MEN TOGETHER WALKING
TELLGLY,IN THAT VIDEO SHOWING
TOWARD THE FINISH LINE ON
THE TWO MEN TOGETHER WALKING
BOYLSTON HAS A TIME STAMP ON IT
TOWARD THE FINISH LINE ON
OF 2:37 IN THE AFTERNOON.
BOYLSTON HAS A TIME STAMP ON IT
JUST EIGHT MINUTES LATER THE
OF 2:37 IN THE AFTERNOON.
EXPLOSIONS TOOK PLACE.
JUST EIGHT MINUTES LATER THE
>> Brown: NOW, WE'RE SHOWING OUR
EXPLOSIONS TOOK PLACE.
AUDIENCE THE VIDEO.
>> Brown: NOW, WE'RE SHOWING OUR
YOU HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT IT
AUDIENCE THE VIDEO.
EARLIER.
YOU HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT IT
BUT THEY SAID -- IF I HEARD IT
EARLIER.
RIGHT THEY HAD ONE SUSPECT EARLY
BUT THEY SAID -- IF I HEARD IT
ON, YESTERDAY, I THINK, THEN
RIGHT THEY HAD ONE SUSPECT EARLY
THEY TOOK THEIR TIME AND FOUND A
ON, YESTERDAY, I THINK, THEN
CONNECTION TO THE SECOND ONE.
THEY TOOK THEIR TIME AND FOUND A
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
CONNECTION TO THE SECOND ONE.
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THERE IS -- YOU
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
JUST PLAYED THE PRESS CONFERENCE
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THERE IS -- YOU
AND MR. DESLAURIERS OF THE
JUST PLAYED THE PRESS CONFERENCE
F.B.I. TOOK VERY FEW QUESTIONS
AND MR. DESLAURIERS OF THE
AFTERWARDS SO WHAT HE SAID WAS
F.B.I. TOOK VERY FEW QUESTIONS
WE DEVELOPED A FIRST SUSPECT
AFTERWARDS SO WHAT HE SAID WAS
THEN AS WE WERE GOING ALONG WE
WE DEVELOPED A FIRST SUSPECT
DEVELOPED A SECOND ONE.
THEN AS WE WERE GOING ALONG WE
NOW I THINK PEOPLE WILL AGREE
DEVELOPED A SECOND ONE.
THAT SUSPECT NUMBER TWO IS MUCH
NOW I THINK PEOPLE WILL AGREE
MORE IDENTIFIABLE.
THAT SUSPECT NUMBER TWO IS MUCH
HE HAS A GOATEE.
MORE IDENTIFIABLE.
HE HAS THAT HAT TURNED
HE HAS A GOATEE.
BACKWARDS.
HE HAS THAT HAT TURNED
SO LOGOS, INTERESTINGLY, ON BOTH
BACKWARDS.
HATS ARE HARD TO SEE AND I THINK
SO LOGOS, INTERESTINGLY, ON BOTH
THAT'S BECAUSE THAT'S VIDEO
HATS ARE HARD TO SEE AND I THINK
THAT'S BEEN TIME SNAPPED TO MAKE
THAT'S BECAUSE THAT'S VIDEO
PHOTOS OF IT IT, SO IT'S A
THAT'S BEEN TIME SNAPPED TO MAKE
LITTLE BLURRY.
PHOTOS OF IT IT, SO IT'S A
BUT HE IS MUCH MORE
LITTLE BLURRY.
IDENTIFIABLE.
BUT HE IS MUCH MORE
I WOULD SAY THEY'RE IN
IDENTIFIABLE.
MID-20s.
I WOULD SAY THEY'RE IN
PROFILE NUMBER ONE IS IN SHADOW
MID-20s.
WEARING THE DARK GLASSES, HARDER
PROFILE NUMBER ONE IS IN SHADOW
TO SEE.
WEARING THE DARK GLASSES, HARDER
IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER HE HAS
TO SEE.
ANY FACIAL HAIR BUT THAT'S WHAT
IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER HE HAS
THEY HAVE AND THE FORUM IS THE
ANY FACIAL HAIR BUT THAT'S WHAT
RESTAURANT NEXT TO THE STARBUCKS
THEY HAVE AND THE FORUM IS THE
WHICH WAS JUST DEVASTATED ON ITS
RESTAURANT NEXT TO THE STARBUCKS
FRONT SIDE BY THAT EXPLOSION.
WHICH WAS JUST DEVASTATED ON ITS
SO HE WANTS -- MR. DELAWYER JAY
FRONT SIDE BY THAT EXPLOSION.
ASKING ANYBODY WITH ANY
SO HE WANTS -- MR. DELAWYER JAY
INFORMATION FROM THOSE PLACES IF
ASKING ANYBODY WITH ANY
THEY RECOGNIZE THESE PEOPLE TO
INFORMATION FROM THOSE PLACES IF
CONTACT THE F.B.I.
THEY RECOGNIZE THESE PEOPLE TO
>> Suarez:.
CONTACT THE F.B.I.
>> Brown: AS BEST WE KNOW
>> Suarez:.
LINKAGE BETWEEN THE TWO IS JUST
>> Brown: AS BEST WE KNOW
THAT FROM THAT VIDEO OF THEM
LINKAGE BETWEEN THE TWO IS JUST
WALKING TOGETHER AT ONE POINT?
THAT FROM THAT VIDEO OF THEM
>> THEY'RE ASSOCIATED TOGETHER A
WALKING TOGETHER AT ONE POINT?
COUPLE OF TIMES, THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THEY'RE ASSOCIATED TOGETHER A
I DO NOT THINK THEY KNOW REALLY
COUPLE OF TIMES, THAT'S RIGHT.
-- THEY D'T KONNOW WHO THESE
I DO NOT THINK THEY KNOW REALLY
PEOPLE ARE IT WOULD SEEM.
-- THEY D'T KONNOW WHO THESE
THERE'S VERY LITTLE INFORMATION
PEOPLE ARE IT WOULD SEEM.
ABOUT THEM.
THERE'S VERY LITTLE INFORMATION
BY THE WAY, THE INTERESTING
ABOUT THEM.
THING ABOUT BOSTON, THOUGH, IS
BY THE WAY, THE INTERESTING
THIS IDEA OF NARROW CASTING AND
THING ABOUT BOSTON, THOUGH, IS
BROADCASTING A PHOTO HAS BEEN
THIS IDEA OF NARROW CASTING AND
VERY SUCCESSFUL.
BROADCASTING A PHOTO HAS BEEN
IN 2011 ON THE 21st OF JUNE IN
2011 THE F.B.I. RELEASED
PHOTOGRAPHS OF CATHERINE GRIEG
WHO WAS THE ASSOCIATE OF THE
NOTORIOUS MOBSTER FUGITIVE JAMES
"WHITEY" BULGER.
THAT WAS ON THE 21st.
WITHIN, I'D SAY, 36 HOURS OF
THAT BROADCAST THERE WAS
SOMEBODY IN SANT MONOA A SAID
SAID WE RECOGNIZE HER AND ON THE
23rd BULGER AND GRIEG WERE IN
CUSTODY.
SO IT'S AN EFFECTIVE TECHNIQUE
THAT'S BEEN USED BY THE F.B.I.
HERE BEFORE.
>> Brown: I WAS WONDERING HOW
UNUSUAL THIS WAS FOR THEM TO GO
BEFORE THIS ROUTE BUT THEY'RE
SAYING IT HAS HAPPENED THERE
BEFORE AND AS TO WHERE THE -- DO
WE KNOW WHERE THESE IMAGES CAME
FROM EXACTLY?
IT GOES WHAT YOU AND I TALKED
ABOUT THE OTHER NIGHT ABOUT THE
NUMBER OF VIDEOS AND PHOTOS THAT
WERE COMING IN.
>> RIGHT.
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS.
THERE WAS ONE SURVEILLANCE
CAMERA HIGH ON A ROOF THAT WAS
THOUGHT TO BE VERY CRITICAL
HERE.
IT TURNS OUT IT DIDN'T COME FROM
THERE.
SO IT'S NOT CLEAR WHERE THEY
CAME FROM.
VERY LITTLE INFORMATION HERE.
WHAT'S INTERESTING TO ME,
THOUGH, IS YESTERDAY WAS A DAY
OF COMPLETE CONFUSION, THE
F.B.I. MADE NO STATEMENT, NOBODY
MADE ANY STATEMENT.
I BELIEVE THEY HAD A PHOTOGRAPH
OR SOME OF THIS YESTERDAY, THEY
CHOSE TODAY TO RELEASE THEM
AFTER THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN TO
BOSTON AND LEFT THE CITY.
>> Brown: DAVID BOERI OF WBUR,
THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Brown: LATER, MR. OBAMA SPOKE
>> Brown: AND AS THE
INVESTIGATION CONTINUES, SO TOO
THE MOURNING.
AS WE HEARD, PRESIDENT OBAMA
CAME TO BOSTON TODAY TO ATTEND A
MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR VICTIMS OF
THE BOMBING.
HUNDREDS LINED UP BEFORE DAWN
THIS MORNING, HOPING TO SECURE
ONE OF THE 2,000 SEATS IN
BOSTON'S ROMAN CATHOLIC
CATHEDRAL OF THE HOLY CROSS.
TIGHT SECURITY BLANKETED THE
AREA AND MANY WERE TURNED AWAY.
>> WE HAVE TO LIVE, WE HAVE TO
GO ON WITH OUR LIVES.
WE DON'T KNOW WHY THINGS HAPPEN
AND IT COULD BE ANY ON EOF US
AND I KNOW WE JUST PRAY AND WE
JUST STAY STRONG WITH EACH
OTHER.
>> WHEN I SEE STORIES, I GET
REALLY SAD, REALLY SAD.
IT BOTHERS ME ON SO MANY LEVELS,
BUT BOSTON IS TOUGH.
THIS CITY IS TOUGH, WE'LL GET
THROUGH IT.
>> Brown: INSIDE, PROMINENT
POLITICIANS, INCLUDING
MASSACHUSETTS SENATORS ELIZABETH
WARREN AND MO COWAN AND FORMER
GOVERNOR AND PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE MITT ROMNEY, JOINED IN
HONORING THE BOMBING VICTIMS.
MAYOR THOMAS MENINO, WHO MISSED
THE MARATHON BECAUSE OF A BROKEN
LEG, PRAISED BOSTON FOR ITS
STRENGTH IN THE FACE OF THE
TRAGEDY.
>> NOTHING CAN DEFEAT THE HEART
OF THIS CITY.
NOTHING.
NOTHING WILL TAKE US DOWN
BECAUSE WE TAKE CARE OF ONE
ANOTHER.
EVEN WITH THE SMELL OF THE SMOKE
IN AIR AND BLOOD ON THE STREETS,
TEARS IN OUR EYES, WE TRIUMPHED
OVER THAT HATEFUL ACT ON MONDAY
AFTERNOON.
BECAUSE THIS IS BOSTON.
A CITY WITH COURAGE COMPASSION
AND STRENGTH THAT KNOWS NO
BOUNDS.
>> Brown: SIX RELIGIOUS LEADERS
SPOKE.
REVEREND NANCY TAYLOR OF
BOSTON'S OLD SOUTH CHURCH,
LOCATED NEAR THE RACE'S FINISH
LINE, RECOUNTED THE SACRIFICE
SHE WITNESSED MONDAY.
>> FROM CHURCH'S TOWER, THIS IS
WHAT I SAW THAT DAY.
I SAW PEOPLE RUN TOWARD NOT
AWAY, TOWARD THE EXPLOSION.
TOWARD CHAOS.
THE MAYHEM, TOWARD THE DANGER.
MAKING OF THEIR OWN BODIES
SACRAMENTS OF MERCY.
>> Suarez: VIOLINIST YO-YO MA
ACCOMPANIED THE BOSTON
CHILDREN'S CHORUS.
¶
AND GOVERNOR DEVAL PATRICK
LINKED THE STATE HOLIDAY ON
MONDAY TO AMERICA'S VALUES.
>> HOW STRANGE THAT THE
COWARDESS UNLEASHED ON US SHOULD
COME ON MARATHON DAY ON PATRIOTS
DAY.
AN ATTACK ON OUR CIVIL RITUAL,
LIKE THE MARATHON, ESPECIALLY ON
PATRIOT'S DAY IS AN ATTACK ON
THOSE VALUES.
AND JUST AS WE CANNOT PERMIT
DARKNESS AND HATE TO TRIUMPH
OVER OUR SPIRITUAL FAITH, SO WE
MUST NOT PERMIT DARKNESS AND
HATE TO TRIUMPH OVER OUR CIVIC
FAITH.
THAT CANNOT HAPPEN AND IT WILL
NOT.
>> Brown: BEFORE THE SERVICE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA MET WITH THE
FAMILY OF KRYSTLE CAMPBELL, ONE
OF THREE KILLED.
AND IN ADDRESSING THE GATHERING,
HE SOUGHT TO COMFORT THE
UNNERVED CITY.
>> AFTER ALL, IT'S OUR BELOVED
CITY, TOO, BOSTON MAY BE YOUR
HOME TOWN BUT WE CLAIM IT, TOO.
YOUR RESOLVE IS THE GREATEST
REBUKE TO WHOEVER COMMITTED THIS
HEINOUS ACT, IF THEY SOUGHT TO
INTIMIDATE US, TO TERRORIZE US,
TO SHAKE US FROM THOSE VALUES
THE VALUES THAT MAKE US WHO WE
ARE AS AMERICANS.
WELL IT SHOULD BE PRETTY CLEAR
BY NOW THAT THEY PICKED THE
WRONG CITY TO DO IT.
(APPLAUSE)
NOT HERE IN BOSTON, NOT HERE IN
BOSTON.
AND THAT'S WHAT YOU'VE TAUGHT US
BOSTON, THAT'S WHAT YOU REMINDED
US, TO PUSH ON, TO PERSEVERE, TO
NOT GROW WEARY, TO NOT GET
FAINT.
EVEN WHEN IT HURTS, EVEN WHEN
OUR HEART ACHES, WE SUMMON THE
STRENGTH THAT MAYBE WE DIDN'T
EVEN KNOW WE HAD.
AND WE CARRY ON; WE FINISH THE
RACE.
>> Brown: LATER, MR. OBAMA SPOKE
WITH MEMBERS OF THE BOSTON
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION AT A NEARBY
HIGH SCHOOL AND VISITED WITH
VICTIMS AND STAFF AT
MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL.
>> Suarez: AND WE TURN NOW TO
THE SUBJECT OF DRONES-- SMALL
UNMANNED AERIAL DEVICES
OUTFITTED WITH SURVEILLANCE
EQUIPMENT CAN BE BOUGHT BY
VIRTUALLY ANYONE AND FLOWN
LEGALLY THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
AS HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS, THE
TINY AIRCRAFT ARE TRIGGERING A
LARGE DEBATE OVER ACCEPTABLE
USES OF DOMESTIC DRONES AND
PRIVACY.
>> OH, MY GOSH.
WOW!
LOOK AT THAT
>> Sreenivasan: ON A SUNDAY
AFTERNOON, AN HOUR'S DRIVE
OUTSIDE THE NATION'S CAPITAL,
THE SKIES WERE FILLED WITH
DRONES.
NOT THE LETHAL MILITARY KILLING
MACHINES WE'VE HEARD ABOUT
OVERSEAS BUT UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLES OR U.A.V.s OF ALL
SHAPES AND SIZES THAT ARE LEGAL
AND FLOWN IN THE U.S. TODAY.
IT WAS A FLY-IN BY 40 MEMBERS OF
THE D.C. AREA DRONE USER GROUP.
WASHINGTON RESIDENT TIMOTHY
REUTER IS THE GROUP'S FOUNDER.
IT HAS NEARLY 300 MEMBERS.
>> WE HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
ARE INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
WE HAVE SOME LONG-TIME
ENGINEERS.
SOME WHO EVEN WORK
PROFESSIONALLY ON DRONE
PROJECTS.
YOU HAVE LONG-TIME R.C. FLYERS.
AND THEN YOU HAVE PEOPLE LIKE
MYSELF WHO HAVE NO ENGINEERING
BACKGROUND, HAVE NEVER DONE THIS
BEFORE, BUT ARE EXCITED BY THIS
AS A NEW TECHNOLOGY AND JUST
WANT TO GET STARTED AND FIND A
COMMUNITY OF PEOPLE TO WORK
WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: COMMUNITIES LIKE
THIS HAVE POPPED UP ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
THESE AIRCRAFT ARE NOT SUPPOSED
TO FLY HIGHER THAN 400 FEET AND
MUST STAY WITHIN THE OPERATOR'S
LINE OF SIT.GH
AND LIKE ALL U.A.V. ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO FLY AROUND MAJOORTS.
MOST OF THE USERS HERE ARE
STRICTLY HOBBYISTS, BUT REUTER
SAYS MANY OF THEM HAVE BUSINESS
PLANS.
THERE'S ONLY ONE PROBLEM.
>> THE BIG RESTRICTION IS YOU
CAN'T CHARGE MONEY FOR WHAT
YOU'RE DOING.
THE F.A.A. HAS DEEMED IT SAFE
ENOUGH FOR US TO FLY, BUT FOR
SOME REASON IT'S NOT SAFE ENOUGH
TO CHARGE FOR THAT SAME EXACT
FLYING.
SO WE'RE DOING SOME COMMUNITY
SERVICE PROJECTS IN THE AREA,
WORKING WITH THE LOCAL PARK TO
MAKE PROMOTIONAL VIDEOS FROM THE
AIR OF SOME OF THEIR TRAILS AS
AND THAT'S WHERE WERE FITTING
IN.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THE EXPANDED
USE OF U.A.V. TO INCLUDE
COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS MAY BE
ON THE WAY IN THE UNITED STATES.
IN 2012, CONGRESS PASSED A LAW
REQUIRING THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION TO COME UP WITH A
PLAN SO THAT COMMERCIAL AND
PRIVATELY OWNED DRONES COULD BE
AUTHORIZED TO SHARE THE NATIONAL
AIRSPACE BY 2015.
LAST FALL, A REPORT FROM THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY
OFFICE SAID THE MAJORITY OF
THESE DRONES WOULD WEIGH LESS
THAN 55 POUNDS AND FLY BELOW 400
FEET.
AND THE F.A.A.'S LATEST
AEROSPACE FORECAST PREDICTS THAT
ONCE THE RULES ARE IN PLACE,
7,500 SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL
SYSTEMS WILL BE IN COMMERCIAL
USE IN FIVE YEARS.
IN FACT THE AGENCY IS ALREADY
PERMITTING SOME TO OPERATE IN
U.S. SKIES.
AS OF FEBRUARY, THERE WERE 327
ACTIVE CERTIFICATES THAT
AUTHORIZE DRONE FLIGHTS BY
PUBLIC ENTITIES.
THEY'VE BEEN USED TO MONITOR
NATURAL DISASTERS SUCH AS
FLOODING, OR EVEN HOT SPOTS IN
FOREST FIRES.
UNIVERSITIES ARE EXPERIMENTING
WITH DRONES TO MONITOR CROPS OR
VINEYARDS.
AND LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
ARE USING UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLES IN BORDER PATROL
OPERATIONS
>> UNMANNED SYSTEMS BRING A
TREMENDOUS POTENTIAL TO HELP
HUMAN BEINGS DO THOSE DIRTY,
DANGEROUS, DIFFICULT AND DULL
JOBS.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHAEL TOSCANO
IS PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF THE
ASSOCIATION FOR UNMANNED VEHICLE
SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL-- A
LEADING INDUSTRY GROUP FOR THE
UNMANNED SYSTEMS AND ROBOTICS
COMMUNITY.
>> THESE ARE COMMODITIES.
THEY ARE AN EXTENSION OF THE
EYES, EARS, HANDS OF HUMAN
BEINGS.
WELL THAT HUMAN BEING, THAT MAN
OR THAT WOMAN, KNOWS HOW TO DO
THEIR JOB BETTER THAN ANYONE
ELSE.
WHAT YOU'RE GIVING THEM IS A
TOOL THAT ALLOWS THEM TO HAVE
BETTER INFORMATION TO MAKE
SMARTER DECISIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN MARCH,
TOSCANO'S ORGANIZATION RELEASED
A STUDY LOOKING AT THE POTENTIAL
ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE UNMANNED
AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY.
IF THE F.A.A. INTEGRATES
UNAMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS INTO
THE AIRSPACE BY 2015, THE REPORT
PROJECTS 70,000 NEW JOBS IN THE
U.S. BY 2018.
BY 2025 THAT NUMBER COULD GROW
TO MORE THAN 100,000 JOBS.
THE INDUSTRY GROUP SAYS OTHER
NATIONS ARE ALREADY MOVING AHEAD
WITH DOMESTIC UNMANNED AERIAL
VEHICLES.
IN SPAIN, ENGINES EQERUIPPED
U.A.V.s WITH 3-D IMAGING SYSTEMS
TO CREATE DETAILED MAPS OF
BUILDINGS AND MONUMENTS.
COSTA RICAN SCIENTISTS HAVE USED
DRONES TO MONITOR ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S VOLCANOES.
IN NEPAL, SMALL UNMANNED
AIRCRAFT WITH VIDEO CAMERAS ARE
FLOWN ABOVE NATIONAL PARKS TO
COMBAT ANIMAL POACHING.
PROTESTORS IN EASTERN EUROPE
USED A DRONE TO GET A BIRD'S EYE
VIEW OF THE SITUATION ON THE
GROUND.
BUT HERE IN THE U.S., THE STORM
CLOUDS OF LEGISLATIVE BATTLES
TIED TO PRIVACY CONCERNS ARE
LOOMING ON THE HORIZON.
ACCORDING TO THE NATIONAL
CONFERENCE OF STATE
LEGISLATURES, SO FAR IN 2013,
THERE ARE AT LEAST 39 STATES
THAT HAVE 80 BILLS PENDING
RELATED TO UNMANNED AERIAL
SYSTEMS, MOST WOULD LIMIT U.A.V.
ACTIVITY.
JUST LAST WEEK, IDAHO GOVERNOR
C.L. "BUTCH" OTTER SIGNED A BILL
RESTRICTING THE USE OF DRONE
AIRCRAFT BY POLICE AND OTHER
PUBLIC AGENCIES.
THE POTENTIAL WIDESPREAD USE OF
DRONES ISN'T JUST  SPURRING
CONVERSATIONS AT THE STATE AND
LOCAL LEVEL.
LAST MONTH, THE SENATE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE CONVENED A HEARING
TITLED "THE FUTURE OF DRONES IN
AMERICA."
VERMONT SENATOR PATRICK LEAHY
WASN'T ONLY CARRYING PAPERWORK
WHEN HE WALKED INTO THE HEARING.
THE COMMITTEE CHAIR WAS HOLDING
A SMALL DRONE AIRCRAFT, SHOWING
OFF THE DEVICE THAT WEIGHS A
MERE TWO POUNDS TO RANKING
MEMBER CHUCK GRASSLEY OF IOWA.
>> JUST IN THE LAST DECADE,
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS HAVE
REVOLUTIONIZED AVIATION TO MAKE
THIS TECHNOLOGY CHEAPER AND MORE
READILY AVAILABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SIMILAR TO STATE
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, CHIEF
AMONG THE COMMITTEE'S CONCERNS:
PRIVACY.
AMIE STEPANOVICH WAS ONE OF THE
WITNESSES WHO TESTIFIED BEFORE
THE COMMITTEE.
>> THE PRIVACY LAWS THAT DO
EXIST ARE VERY TARGETED, THE
APPROACH THAT THE UNITED STATES
HAS TAKEN TO PRIVACY, AND THEY
DON'T ENCOMPASS THE TYPE OF
SURVEILLANCE THAT DRONES ARE
ABLE TO CONDUCT, AND BECAUSE OF
>> Sreenivasan: STEPANOVICH
WORKS AT THE ELECTRONIC PRIVACY
INFORMATION CENTER OR EPIC, A
NON-PROFIT IN WASHINGTON D.C.
>> WE WANT TO SEE LEGISLATION
THAT ADDRESSES AERIAL
SURVEILLANCE AS A WHOLE.
THAT DOESN'T NECESSARILY LOOK AT
WHAT TECHNOLOGY IS AVAILABLE ON
THE MARKET NOW, BUT WHAT COULD
BE AVAILABLE, WHAT HAS BEEN
AVAILABLE AND ADDRESSES THAT IN
A WAY THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE
OUT-OF-DATE IN A COUPLE OF
YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST MONTH, EPIC
PETITIONED THE BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PROTECTION TO SUSPEND
ITS DOMESTIC DRONE SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAM, CITING A LACK OF
PRIVACY REGULATIONS.
THE GROUP HAS ALSO URGED THE
F.A.A. TO ADDRESS PRIVACY AND
TRANSPARENCY CONCERNS AS THE
AGENCY WORKS TOWARD OPING ENTHE
NATIONAL AIRSPACE TO U.A.V.s.
>> TRANSPARENCY IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT'S SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE DONE RELATIVELY
EASILY.
AND ACTUALLY RIGHT NOW YOU HAVE
ALL MANNED PILOTS, MANNED
AIRCRAFT ARE REGISTERED.
AND THAT REGISTRY IS PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE.
WITH DRONE AIRCRAFT, YOU DON'T
HAVE THE SAME REPOSITORY.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO DETERMINE
WHAT'S OUT THERE.
WHAT SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT THEY
CARRY.
AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE ARE AWARE OF WHAT THEY'RE
SUBJECT TO.
>> Sreenivasan: NEITHER PRIVACY
ADVOCATES NOR U.A.V. ENTHUSIASTS
ARE CONFIDENT THAT THE F.A.A.
WILL MEET ITS REQUIRED
DEADLINES.
PUTTING THE FUTURE OF DOMESTIC
DRONES UP IN THE AIR.
>> Suarez: HOW CLOSE ARE WE TO
HAVING DRONES PEER IN OUR
WINDOWS?
GET SOME PERSPECTIVE ON OUR
WORLD PAGE.
>> Brown: NEXT, A BIG MOVE ON A
LONG-CONTROVERSIAL AREA:
IMMIGRATION.
MARGARET WARNER HAS OUR LOOK.
>> Warner: AFTER MONTHS OF
NEGOTIATIONS, A BIPARTISAN GROUP
OF SENATORS FORMALLY ROLLED OUT
A SWEEPING IMMIGRATION OVERHAUL
TODAY.
THE GANG OF EIGHT'S BILL WOULD
ESTABLISH A PATHWAY TO
CITIZENSHIP FOR THE ESTIMATED 1
MILLION UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE
CURRENTLY IN THE COUNTRY.
THE PROCESS WOULD TAKE 13 YEARS
AND APPLICANTS WOULD HAVE TO PAY
A FINE AND BACK TAXES, LEARN
ENGLISH, AND PASS A CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND CHECK AMONG OTHER
HURDLES.
BUT BEFORE THAT SYSTEM CAN EVEN
BE SET UP CERTAIN SECURITY GOALS
MUST BE MET, INCLUDING
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE BORDER
FENCE.
ONE MEMBER OF THE GROUP, SENATOR
LINDSEY GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA
SAID FAILING TO CHANGE THE
NATION'S IMMIGRATION SYSTEM
WOULD BE ECONOMIC SUICIDE
>> THE ONLY WAY AMERICA LOSES IS
TO DO NOTHING.
AND TO THOSE PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE
THAT WE DON'T NEED LEGAL
IMMIGRATION IN THE FUTURE,
YOU'RE IN DENIAL ABOUT THE
DEMOGRAPHICS.
AND TO THOSE WHO SAY THIS COSTS
MORE TO TAKE PEOPLE OUT OF THE
SHADOWS AND PUT THEM A LEGAL
STATUS WHERE THEY PAY TAXES,
YOU'VE CERTAINLY LOST ME.
THAT MAKES NO SENSE.
>> Warner: FOR MORE NOW WE TURN
TO ILLINOIS DEMOCRAT DICK
DURBIN, THE MAJORITY WHIP IN THE
SENATE SAND A MEMBER OF THE
SO-CALLED GANG OF EIGHT.
WELCOME, SENATOR DURBIN.
YOU ALL HAVE BEEN WORKING ON
THIS NON-STOP SINCE THE START OF
THIS CONGRESS.
HOW HARD WAS THIS TO FORGE THIS
COMPROMISE?
>> THIS WASN'T EASY.
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE EIGHT WILLFUL
MEMBERS OF THE U.S. SENATE--
FOUR FROM EACH PARTY-- EACH WITH
A POINT OF VIEW AND WE CAME
TOGETHER DETERMINED TO PUT
TOGETHER A COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION BILL TASK WHICH HAS
ELUDED OTHER SENATORS IN THE
RECENT PAST.
WE GOT IT DONE.
IT'S AN 848 PAGE BILL.
IT'S A GOOD OFFERING, A WAY TO
IMPROVE THIS IMMIGRATION SYSTEM
IN A LOT OF DIFFERENT FACETS.
>> GIVE US A FLAVOR OF WHAT WAS
IT WAS LIKE IN THAT ROOM.
I GATHER YOU HAD SOMETHING LIKE
24 MEETINGS.
>> WELL, THERE WERE NICE KIND
AND QUIET MEETINGS AND MORE
ERUPTIVE MEETINGS.
AS I SAID TODAY TO JOHN, I SAID
MOUNT McCAIN ERUPTED A FEW TIMES
BUT FORTUNATELY NO ONE WAS
INJURED AND WE GOT BACK ON PATH
IN A HURRY.
SO DESPITE THE STRONG FEELINGS
THAT WE EACH BROUGHT TO THIS
ISSUE-- BECAUSE IT IS SO
IMPORTANT TO EACH OF US AND TO
OUR COUNTRY-- I THINK AT THE END
WE STRUCK A GOOD BALANCE.
>> Pelley: ASBACK IN 2007 THEREA
BIPARTISAN PUSH FOR IMMIGRATION
REFORM.
JUST THIS WEEK WE SAW PROPOSALS
ON GUN LEGISLATION WHICH HAD
BIPARTISAN BACKING AND WIDE
PUBLIC SUPPORT GO DOWN TO
DEFEAT.
WHAT GIVES YOU REASON TO BELIEVE
OR HOPE THAT THIS ONE MAY BE
DIFFERENT?
>> WELL, I'VE NEVER BEEN ON A
STAGE AT A PRESS CONFERENCE
ANNOUNCING A BILL WHICHRICH ARD
TRUMPKA, THE PRESIDENT OF THE
A.F.L.-C.I.O. AND GROVER
NORQUIST.
IT'S THE MOST UNUSUAL COALITION
OF BUSINESS AND LABOR,
CONSERVATIVES AND LIBERALS,
RELIGIOUS LEADERS, LEADERS FROM
ALL WALKS OF LIFE WHO HAVE COME
TOGETHER TO BACK THIS BILL.
I THINK WE'VE GOT A CHANCE
BECAUSE IT IS SO BIPARTISAN AND
HAS SUCH A BROAD BASE OF SUPPORT
>> Warner: SO YOU THINK IT'S
MORE THAN THE FACT THAT 70% OF
HISPANIC VOTERS CHOSE PRESIDENT
OBAMA IN THE NOVEMBER ELECTION?
>> MAKE NO MISTAKE, THAT WAS THE
CATALYST.
IF THE NOVEMBER 6 ELECTION
HADN'T BEEN SO DECISIVE WHEN IT
CAME TO VOTING BLOCKS LIKE ASIAN
AMERICANS AND HISPANIC AMERICANS
FAVORING PRESIDENT OBAMA I'M NOT
SURE MY REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES
WOULD HAVE HAD THE APPETITE.
JOHN McCAIN HAS BEEN VERY OPEN
ABOUT THIS AND HE SAID IF THE
REPUBLICANS WANT TO BE
COMPETITIVE WITH HISPANIC VOTERS
IN AMERICA WE'VE GOT TO STEP
FORWARD AND FIND A SOLUTION TO
OUR IMMIGRATION CHALLENGE.
>> NOW HAVE THE EIGHT OF YOU
DISCUSSED NOT ONLY THE SUBSTANCE
OF THE BILL BUT HOW EACH TEAM OF
YOU IS GOING TO DEAL WITH
CHALLENGES FROM YOUR OWN CAUCUS?
>> WE HAVEN'T GOTTEN INTO
PARTICULARS.
WE COULD IS CERTAINLY TO THIS
AND MY WORK AS SENATE WHIP, I DO
IT EVERYDAY WHERE WE BREAK OUT
MEMBERS OF EACH CAUCUS AND EACH
APPROACH TO MAKE SURE THEY
UNDERSTAND THE BILL BUT IN
FAIRNESS THEY TOOK THIS TO THEIR
OWN CAUCUS, WE TOOK IT TO OURS
AND WE OPENED IT TO QUESTION.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, AS YOU
MIGHT EXPECT, THERE WAS A MORE
POSITIVE RESPONSE BUT I STILL
FEEL VERY HOPEFUL WE'LL HAVE A
SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF REPUBLICAN
SENATORS.
>> SEVERAL OF YOU AT TODAY'S
PRESS CONFERENCE TALK ABOUT HOW
YOU WOULD WELCOME AMENDMENTS BUT
NOT AMENDMENTS YOU FELT WERE
DESIGNED TO KILL THE BILL.
HOW IS THAT ACTUALLY GOING TO
WORK?
IN OTHER WORDS, ARE YOU
COMMITTED TO WORKING TOGETHER AS
A GROUP TO ACTUALLY MEETING AND
SAYING THIS LOOKS LIKE A BILL
KILLER TO US AND ALWAYS VOTING
AS A BLOCK?
>> WE HAVEN'T SPELLED THAT OUT
BECAUSE WE HAVEN'T SEEN THE
AMENDMENTS.
ONCE WE SEE THEM WE'LL BE ABLE
TO MEASURE THEM AS TO WHETHER
THEY'RE FRIENDLY AMENDMENTS TO
IMPROVE THE BILL OR DESIG
OTHERWISE.
NOW THERE ARE FOUR OF US-- CHUCK
SCHUMER, MYSELF, LINDSEY GRAHAM
AND JEFF FLAKE-- ON THE SENATE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WHERE THIS
BILL WILL BE CONSIDERED.
WE'RE HAVING OUR FIRST HEARING
TOMORROW, THEN ANOTHER ONE ON
MONDAY COME AFTER THE MAY RECESS
WILL COME BACK IN THE FIRST WEEK
OF MAY WITH AN OPPORTUNITY TO GO
THROUGH MARKUP.
>> Warner: BUT YOU'VE WORKED NOW
WITH THESE SEVEN OTHER SENATORS
VERY CLOSELY FOR THE LAST THREE,
FOUR MONTHS.
DO YOU THINK EACH ONE IS
COMMITTED AND READY TO VOTE
AGAINST AMENDMENTS OFFERED BY
MEMBERS AND THE MAYBE MORE
IDEOLOGICAL END OF THEIR CAUCUS?
THE PEOPLE THEY CONSIDER FRIENDS
AND COLLEAGUES AND WHO REPRESENT
CONSTITUENCYS THAT REMEMBER THE
GANG OF EIGHT ALSO HAS TO WORRY
ABOUT?
>> YOU PUT YOUR FINGER ON THE
BIGGEST CHALLENGE.
WHEN YOU HAVE A BROKERED
COMPROMISE THAT REALLY TRIES TO
STRIKE A BALANCE AND THEN YOU
OPEN IT TO AMENDMENTS I KNOW
THEY'RE GOING TO BE SOME HEART
BREAKING VOTE THERE IS.
THERE WERE THINGS THAT IF I WERE
AN INDEPENDENT ON THIS ISSUE AND
NOT VESTED IN THIS PROCESS I'D
GLADLY VOTE FOR THEM.
I'M SURE THE SAME IS TRUE ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE BUT WE'VE GOT TO
MEASURE WHICH AMENDMENTS GO TOO
FAR, DESTROY THE BALANCE.
IT'S GOING TO BE A TOUGH
BALANCING ACT.
>> ONE ELEMENT -- THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF FOCUSING ON ONE THE BILL
DOES FOR AND TO PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BEEN HERE ILLEGALLY BUT IT ALSO
REPRESENTS QUITE A SHIFT,
WOULDN'T IT, IN WHO'S ADMITTED
HERE LEGALLY IN THE FUTURE?
>> YES, THERE'S SEVERAL ASPECTS
TO THIS.
FIRST, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PEOPLE WHO COME IN FOR SPECIFIC
JOBS OR SPECIFIC PURPOSES.
THE H-1Bs AND SO-CALLED
SPECIALIZED PEOPLE WHO ARE
BROUGHT INTO THE UNITED STATES.
WE THINK OF THEM IN THE HIGH
TECH INDUSTRY BUT IT REALLY IS
ACROSS A BROAD SPECTRUM OF
POSSIBILITIES AND EMPLOYMENT.
THEN WE HAVE OTHER JOBS RELATED
TO SEASONAL WORKERS,
AGRICULTURAL WORKERS AND THE
LIKE.
SO EACH OF THOSE HAS A DIFFERENT
PROGRAM BUT THERE'S ONE COMMON
THEME: IN EVERY ONE OF THESE
INSTANCE IT IS JOB HAS TO BE
OFFERED TO AN AMERICAN FIRST AND
IT HAS TO BE OFFERED AT A WAGE
THAT'S FAIR.
IF THE AMERICAN FILLS THE JOB,
SO BE IT.
FORTHE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS N
THIS COUNTRY IS TOO HIGH YOU
CAN'T BRING IN FOREIGN WORKERS.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO SET UP A
SYSTEM THAT GIVES THE AMERICAN
WORKERS THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY
THE HIGHEST PREFERENCE.
>> Warner: QUICK FINAL QUESTION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CAME OUT THIS
WEEK AND SAID HE SUPPORTS THIS
BILL.
DO YOU WANT HIS ACTIVE
INVOLVEMENT IN THIS?
DO YOU NEED HIS ACTIVE
INVOLVEMENT OR IS IT BETTER TO
HAVE HIM STAND BACK AND LET YOU
ALL HANDLE THIS?
>> A FEW MONTHS BACK WHEN THE
PRESIDENT WAS HEADED TO NEVADA
TO TALK ABOUT IMMIGRATION, THE
SUNDAY BEFORE HE LEFT HE WAS ON
THE PHONE WITH CHUCK SCHUMER AND
ME AND WE TALKED FOR A FEW
MINUTES AND HE SAID "ALL RIGHT,
I WON'T PUT A BILL ON THE TABLE,
I'LL GIVE YOU THE CHANCE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
BUT I'VE LEARNED A LESSON
WATCHING CONGRESS, I'M NOT GOING
TO WAIT FOREVER SO GET ON TO IT
AND GET IT DONE."
AND WE HAVE.
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
ENCOURAGING US.
HE SUPPORTS COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
I KNOW HE'LL DO WHATEVER IT
TAKES TO HELP US PASS THIS BILL
BUT HE'S COMMITTED TO IT
PERSONALLY.
>> Warner: SENATOR RICHARD
DURBIN OF ILLINOIS, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: IN THE FOURTH IN OUR
FIVE-PART ONLINE SERIES, WE
CATCH UP WITH JESUS GARCIA, AN
ACTIVIST WE FIRST INTERVIEWED
ABOUT IMMIGRATION REFORM IN
2006.
WHAT HAS AND HASN'T CHANGED IN
THE LAST SEVEN YEARS?
YOU CAN ALSO READ A PRIMER ON
THE LEGISLATION.
THAT'S AT newshour.pbs.org.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ENDING EXTREME POVERTY AROUND
THE WORLD BY 2030.
THAT'S THE AMBITIOUS GOAL
ANNOUNCED BY WORLD BANK
PRESIDENT JIM YONG KIM.
THE WORLD BANK HAS COME UNDER
STRONG CRITICISM AT VARIOUS
TIMES SINCE ITS FOUNDING IN 1944
INCLUDING, AS IT HAPPENS, BY KIM
HIMSELF.
AN AMERICAN BORN IN SOUTH KOREA,
SKIM A DOCTOR, A LEADING GLOBAL
HEALTH ADVOCATE AND WINNER OF A
SO-CALLED MacARTHUR GENIUS
GRANT.
IN THE LATE 1980s HE
DEMONSTRATED AGAINST WORLD BANK
POLICIES EVEN CALLING FOR ITS
END.
LAST YEAR PICKED BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA HE BECAME THE BANK'S CHIEF
AFTER SERVING AS PRESIDENT OF
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE SINCE 2009.
I TALKED WITH DR. KIM AT WORLD
BANK HEADQUARTERS IN WASHINGTON
THIS MORNING AND BEGAN BY ASKING
WHAT'S NEW IN HIS GOAL OF
ATTACKING POVERTY.
>> WE FEEL THE FACT THAT THERE'S
STILL 1.2 BILLION PEOPLE LIVING
IN ABSOLUTE POVERTY, WHICH IS
LESS THAN $1.25 A DAY, IS A
STAIN ON OUR COLLECTIVE
CONSCIENCE.
>> Suarez: A STAIN?
>> A STAIN.
OVER THE PAST 25 YEARS WE'VE
MADE PROGRESS.
WE'VE GONE FROM 4% OF THE PEOPLE
LIVING IN ABSOLUTE POVERTY TO
21% TODAY MOST OF THAT WAS
BECAUSE CHINA GREW SO RAPIDLY.
BUT NOW THE TOUGH WORK REMAINS.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS A 1% A YEAR
DROP IN GLOBAL POVERTY BUT
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IS THAT
THAT CURVE WILL FLATTEN OUT
DRAMATICALLY AND WHAT WE'RE
SAYING IS WE NOW NEED TO BEND
THAT ARC DOWNWARDS AND REALLY
END POVERTY AND IT'S GOING TO
TAKE A LOT OF EFFORT TO REACH
THIS TARGET.
>> Brown: GIVE US A CONCRETE
EXAMPLE OF WHAT WOULD YOU NOW DO
DIFFERENTLY.
>> SO WHAT WOULD YOU DO IN INDIA
DIFFERENTLY IF YOU'RE COMMITTED
TO ENDING POVR ANY WELL, I
VISITED A STATE CALLED UTTAR
PRADESH THAT HAS OVER 200
MILLION PEOPLE.
8% OF THE PEOPLE LIVING IN
ABSOLUTE POVR POVERTY IN THE
WORLD LIVE IN UTTAR PRADESH.
SO IN OUR PLAN FOR INDIA WE'RE
GOING TO FOCUS MUCH MORE OF OUR
EFFORT IN THE POOREST STATES
WHERE THE POOR PEOPLE LIVE.
>> Brown: IS THERE AN IMPLIED OR
EXPLICIT CRITIQUE OF PRACTICES
OF THE WORLD BANK AND OTHER
INSTITUTIONS IN THE PAST?
YOU YOURSELF WERE ONCE ONE OF
THOSE WHO DEMONSTRATED AGAINST
OR PROTESTED AGAINST THE WORLD
BANK.
NOW HERE YOU ARE HEADING IT.
>> AND I THINK IT'S AN
INDICATION OF HOW MUCH THINGS
HAVE CHANGED BACK THEN I WAS
PART OF A MUTUAL CALLED 50 YEARS
IS ENOUGH WHERE WE THOUGHT THE
50th ANNIVERSARY YOU SHOULD JUST
SHUT DOWN THE WORLD BANK.
>> Brown: WHO NEEDS IT ANYMORE?
>> BUT NOW IT'S CHANGED.
WE WERE NOT AT THE FOREFRONT OF
CLIMATE CHANGE OR INSISTING ON
GENDER EQUALITY IN DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS 15 YEARS AGO.
WE ARE THROUGH THERE NOW.
IT'S A DIFFERENT ORGANIZATION
AND WE ARE UNITED AROUND THIS
GOAL OF ENDING POVERTY.
>> Suarez:.
>> Brown: COULD YOU HAVE
IMAGINED YOURSELF 15 YEARS AGO
HEADING THIS ORGANIZATION?
>> NOT 15 YEARS AGO.
>> Suarez: ONE OF THE CRITIQUES
I'VE SEEN FROM SOME IN THE
DEVELOPMENT COUNTRY THAT YOU'RE
STILL FOCUSING ON GROWTH AS A
WAY TO BRING EVERYBODY UP AND
NOT ENOUGH ON THE INEQUALITYS
THAT EXIST WITHIN MANY SOCIETIES
INCLUDING MANY OF THE MORE
DEVELOPED SOCIETIES.
>> THE SECOND PART OF THE TARGET
WHICH IS BOOSTING SHARED
PROSPERITY, THIS IS NEW FOR THE
WORLD BANK.
WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS EVERY YEAR
WE'LL LET COUNTRIES KNOW THE
EXTONIGHT WHICH THE BOTTOM 40%
OF INCOME EARNERS ARE
PARTICIPATING IN ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
IN OTHER WORDS WE'LL MEASURE THE
EXTONIGHT WHICH GROWTH IS
INCLUSIVE.
THAT'S NEW AND VERY POWERFUL.
>> Brown: YOU'RE GOING TO TELL
HOW MUCH THE BOTTOM IS BEHIND
THE TOP?
>> WE'VE BEEN SPECIFIC ABOUT IT
FOR YEARS.
IS WE BELIEVE THAT THE EVIDENCE
SHOWS US AND CERTAINLY ARAB
SPRING COUNTRIES HAVE SHOWN US
THIS THAT IF YOU HAD G.D.P.
GROWTH WITHOUT INCLUSION YOU'RE
BUILDING INSTABILITY INTO YOUR
SOCIETIES AND WE FEEL THAT THE
EVIDENCE IS OVERWHELMING THAT
PUTTING WOMEN AT THE CENTER IS
SMART ECONOMICS, THAT'S WHAT YOU
SHOULD BE DOING.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MEASURE GROWTH
WE'RE GOING TO MEASURE
PARTICIPATION IN GROWTH, WE'RE
GOING TO MEASURE POVERTY BUT THE
THINGS THAT YOU NEED TO DO TO
GET THERE ARE VARIED AND WHAT WE
KNOW IS THAT IF YOU DON'T INVEST
IN HEALTH, EDUCATION, SOCIAL
PROTECTION, YOU'RE NOT BEING
VERY VISIONARY ABOUT WHAT IT'S
GOING TO TAKE TO GROW YOUR
ECONOMY IN THE FUTURE.
THAT MESSAGE IS VERY STRONG AND
I THINK PEOPLE ARE HEARING IT
FROM US.
>> Brown: DOES THIS REQUIRE NEW
MONEY?
YOU'RE MAKING THIS AT A TIME OF
SLOW GROWTH IN MUCH OF THE
WORLD.
NEGATIVE GROWTH IN EUROPE, FOR
EXAMPLE.
WHAT DO YOU NEED FROM OTHER
COUNTRIES AND HOW WOULD YOU GET
IT AT A TIME LIKE THIS?
>> OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS
WHICH IS THE MONEY DONOR
COUNTRIES GIVE, IT'S NOT $125
BILLION A YEAR.
LET'S LOOK AT ONE COUNTRY.
INDIA.
I WAS JUST BACK FROM INDIA.
THEY HAVE A $1 TRILLION
INFRASTRUCTURE DEFICIT OTHER THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS SO THERE'S NO
WAY THAT OFFICIAL DEVELOPMENT
SYSTEMS IS GOING TO BE ENOUGH TO
TACK THIS WILL PROBLEM.
THIS IS ONE OF THE GREAT
STRENGTHS OF THE WORLD BANK
GROUP.
WE NOT ONLY WORK IN THE PUBLIC
SECTOR WITH DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE BUT WE MAKE DIRECT
INVESTMENTS, WE MAKE LOANS.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE A MAJOR
EFFORT AT BRINGING PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE TOGETHER IF WE'RE TO
HAVE ANY CHANCE OF MEETING THESE
TARGETS.
>> Brown: ARE YOU AFRAID THAT
THE WORLD MIGHT FALL BACKWARDS?
THERE'S BEEN STRIDES IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF DECADES WITH CHINA AND
OTHER COUNTRIES WITH POVERTY.
WE'VE HAD A NUMBER OF YEARS OF
SLOW GROWTH.
ARE YOU AFRAID WE MIGHT BE
MOVING BACKWARDS?
>> WE REMAIN CAUTIOUSLY
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT WHAT COULD
HAPPEN IN THE FUTURE.
WE KNOW DEVELOPED ECONOMIES HAVE
TO GROW IN ORDER FOR US TO MEET
OUR TARGETS IN THE DEVELOPING
ECONOMIES BUT THE GROWTH IN THE
DEVELOPING ECONOMIES HAS BEEN
ONE OF THE GOOD NEWS STORIES
OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
MORE THAN 50% OF THE GROWTH
GLOBALLY HAS COME FROM THE
DEVELOPING ECONOMIES AND THIS
YEAR THEY'LL GROW AT 5.5%.
MANY OF THOSE COUNTRIES THAT
MAKE TOUGH DECISIONS AROUND
FISCAL CONSOLIDATION, AROUND
INVESTING IN HEALTH AND
EDUCATION THEY COULD LAY THE
FOUNDATIONS FOR FUTURE GROWTH.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE QUESTIONS
AS YOU GATHER HERE IS WHETHER
THE WORLD BANK IS RELEVANT
ANYMORE, RIGHT?
YOU HAD A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES
THAT HAVE GROWN AND MADE GREAT
STRIDES.
THERE ARE OTHER AREAS WHERE THEY
CAN SEEK INVESTMENT NOW.
WHAT'S THE CASE FOR THE
CONTINUED RELEVANCE OF THE WORLD
BANK?
>> BRAZIL, RUSSIA, INDIA, CHINA,
SOUTH AFRICA, THE MOST HIGH
PROFILE MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES
THE EXPERIENCE THAT I'VE HAD IN
GOING TO EACH OF THOSE COUNTRIES
IS THAT THEY DON'T WANT LESS OF
THE WORLD BANK THEY WANT MORE OF
THE WORLD BANK IT'S NOT SO MUCH
THEY NEED OUR MONEY BUT OUR
EXPERTISE AND IT'S OUR VERY
SPECIFIC ABILITY TO WORK IN THE
PUBLIC SECTOR, IN THE PRIVATE
SECTOR AND WE ALSO PROVIDE
POLITICAL GUARANTEES.
SO IF YOU MAKE AN INVESTMENT IN
A COUNTRY AND THAT COMPANY'S
NATIONALIZED WE PROVIDE
INSURANCE WHICH IS HELPING
PEOPLE TO FEEL COMFORTABLE
MAKING THE INVESTMENTS IN
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES THAT ARE
NEEDED.
WE'VE HAD 66 YEARS OF
EXPERIENCE.
WE'VE GONE THROUGH SO MANY
DIFFERENT CONFLICTS IN ORDER TO
GET TO A PLACE WHERE THE 188
MEMBER COUNTRIES AGREE ON WHERE
WE SHOULD GO AND AGREE ABOUT THE
FUNDAMENTAL RELEVANCE OF THE
WORLD BANK GROUP THERE WILL
ALWAYS BE A NEED FOR OUR
KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY TO WORK
ACROSS PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
SECTORS.
THERE WILL ALWAYS BE A NEED FOR
US AS A NEUTRAL AGENT IN A VERY
CONTENTIOUS ENVIRONMENT.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU FINALLY
ABOUT YOU PERSONALLY.
BECAUSE WORLD BANK PRESIDENTS TO
THIS POINT HAVE TRADITIONALLY
BEEN POLITICAL BACKGROUNDS FROM
ECONOMIC BACKGROUNDS, FINANCIAL
BACKGROUNDS.
YOU'RE A DOCTOR, YOU'VE SPENT
YOUR LIFE IN PUBLIC HEALTH.
WHAT DO YOU BRING TO THIS THAT
IS DIFFERENT?
>> FOR ALMOST ALL OF MY ADULT
LIFE I'VE BEEN WORKING IN THE
AREA OF DEVELOPMENT.
I'VE WORKED IN HAITI, THE SLUMS
OF LIMA, PERU, I'VE WORKED IN
THE FORMER SOVIET UNION
COUNTRIES.
I'VE WORKED IN SIBERIA.
SO I HAVE BEEN DOING DEVELOPMENT
MY ENTIRE LIFE AND THE WORLD
BANK IS A DEVELOPMENT BANK.
OUR FOCUS IS ON TRYING TO HELP
LIFT PEOPLE OUT OF POVERTY AND
TO BOOST PROSPERITY THAT'S
SHARED AND THAT'S ESSENTIALLY
WHAT I'VE BEEN DOING ALL MY LIFE
AS AN ANTHROPOLOGIST AND
PHYSICIAN SO I HAVE BEEN TRYING
TO FIGHT POVERTY MY WHOLE LIFE
AND WHAT I FOUND THAT INSIDE THE
WORLD BANK WE ARE JUST FULL OF
PASSION THAT PEOPLE IN THE WORLD
BANK WANT TO END POVERTY.
THAT'S WHY THEY CAME TO WORK AT
THE WORLD BANK AND BECAUSE WE
SHARE SUCH FUNDAMENTAL VALUES,
WE HOPE THAT WE CAN BE EVER MORE
EFFECTIVE IN THE YEARS AHEAD.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WORLD BANK
PRESIDENT DR. KIM, THANKS FOR
TALKING WITH US.
>> Brown: DR. KIM HAS ALSO
PROMISED A STRONG NEW EFFORT TO
COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE,
ESPECIALLY IN THE DEVELOPING
WORLD.
YOU CAN FIND THAT PART OF OUR
CONVERSATION, ONLINE.
AND AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE F.B.I. RELEASED PHOTOS AND
VIDEO OF TWO MALE SUSPECTS IN
THE BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS AND
ASKED FOR THE PUBLIC'S HELP IN
IDENTIFYING THEM.
AND THE AREA AROUND A FERTLIZER
PLANT EXPLOSION IN WEST, TEXAS
WAS STILL DANGEROUS, DUE TO
AUTHORITIES WOULD NOT SAY HOW
MANY FATALITIES THERE WERE.
AND A CORRECTION BEFORE WE GO,
EARLIER IN THE PROGRAM I
REFERRED TO YO YO MA AS A
VIOLINIST.
HOLD YOUR LETTERS, PLEASE: HE
IS, OF COURSE, ONE OF THE
WORLD'S GREAT CELLISTS.
>> Suarez: AND ONLINE WITH HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AUTHORS OF A
NEW BOOK, "THE CHOSEN FEW: HOW
EDUCATION SHAPED JEWISH
HISTORY," SUGGEST THAT AN
EMPHASIS ON LITERACY HELPED JEWS
FORGE A LEGACY OF
INTELLECTUALISM AND ECONOMIC
PROSPERITY.
FIND THAT ON OUR MAKING SENSE
PAGE.
AND LEARN WHY CHINA AND THE U.S.
HAVE AGREED TO STEP UP DIALOGUE
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE ON OUR
WORLD PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Brown: I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
THANK YOU AND GOODNIGHT.
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR HAS BEEN PROVIDED BY:
>> AND WITH THE ONGOING SUPPORT
OF THESE INSTITUTIONS AND
FOUNDATIONS.
AND...
>> THIS PROGRAM WAS MADE
POSSIBLE BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING.
AND BY CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PBS
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org